# Glomerular Injury Score Assessment Preview

For this project, I had the opportunity to work on a team with 4 other students while collaborating with the Medical College of Wisconsin to perform medical imaging research. During this time, we investigated how the severity of lesions to glomeruli can be objectively assessed given kidney cross-sections. To do this, we implemented and experimented with multiple approaches including but not limited to Convolution Neural Networks, Clustering, and Principal Component Analysis.

Unfortunately, since much of the work we performed is pertinent to other papers which are yet to be published, the final report we created as well as the repository containing our experiments are both currently private. If you are interested in reading the full manuscript my team and I wrote, I have permission to release access to it to private parties for education and professional purposes, so please feel free to send me an email at wellerj@msoe.edu if interested.

### Abstract
Glomeruli are blood vessels that are responsible for filtering and removing waste from the blood which can be damaged by kidney diseases, in turn impairing their functionality. The severity of damage to an individual glomerulus is measured by a semiquantitative metric called its glomerular injury score. Currently, methods to assess the glomerular injury score of glomeruli involve multiple observers in medical laboratories spending approximately one hour to classify enough glomeruli to assess the injury state of individual kidneys, however, incorrect classifications are possible due to observer variability. This project intends to reduce inter-observer variability and intra-observer variability by applying machine learning methods to objectively classify glomerular injury scores. Complexities to this problem arise as the potential for variability-based misclassifications present themselves due to the dataset for this project consisting of 18,539 images of glomeruli which were subjectively scored by multiple observers and have a non-uniform score distribution. These variability and dataset bias issues will be experimentally addressed using various machine learning techniques throughout this report. Conclusively, despite not discovering an advantageous method to completely eliminate variance and dataset bias in this research, the numerous experimental directions explored in this report can be used to assist future research in solving this problem.
